## About

Welcome to my website! I'm currently a second year engineerng physics student at UBC. I'm interested in many things including math, AI, philosophy, and effective altruism.

## Self Studying

Starting in early grade 12 I had lots of free time since I finished most of my courses and had the great idea to start self studying. Starting with different coding languages including java and python, it then moved onto physics topics including AP Physics C mechanics and AP Physics C eletrostatics and magnetism, and eventually ended up in pure math self studying textbooks such as "How to Prove it", "Understanding Analysis", and "Linear Algebra Done Right". Instead of covering each one of these learning experiences, I thought I'd cover the hardest step in the journey, which was studying "How to Prove it" (an introductory textbook to mathematical proofs).

This came about in the summer of grade 12 when I saw a video by Zach Star on how he self studying a university math textbook and I decided to give it a try. To ensure that I was fully understanding it, I decided to do every question in the book. 
Compared to my past self teaching experiences, this was a big step up in difficulty eventually getting to the point where a single proof could take an hour with minimal progress, leading to me thinking that I hadn't properly learnt the material (after all the book was called "How to Prove it"). The key distintion here, which I hadn't realized at the time, was the difference between understanding the material and learning the material. When reading a chapter, I could understand the ideas the concepts and the deffinitions but to actually learn the material required the application of my understanding, which is seperate from the understanding itself. The practice questions are in essence a training data to learn patterns of proof. In this sense, if you are uanble to solve them after a decent amount of time experimenting, reading the solution would still count as learning, and a good signal that you don't understand the material is if you don't understand the solution. 
Another common problem is how long it took to learn. In the previous topics that I self studyied it felt like the understanding was directly connected to the application of my understanding, and since I could quickly understand subjects I could get through those subjects really fast, however during this textbook I was consistently spending 8-10 hours a day doing math and yet the progress still felt slow taking a month to complete. A good stratagee to combat this is instead of treating the whole textbook as the goal that you have to overcome, if you schedule ahead of time what you want to complete each day it makes it feel as if progress is being made. Instead of looking at it as an increase of 0.1% in the total progress needed, it's a daily increase of 100% once you complete your goal for the day.

I found one of the biggest benefits of self study is the freedom for education. Although we hear a lot that we live in a world of information and that all the knowledge is only one google seach away, for the majority of students that simply isn't true as without the skills required your education is held back by having to rely on teachers and learning alongside the class. This change of mindset gotten from self learning also changed my approach to school, I didn't see a reason why I had to only learn the subjects taught in first year engineering and so decided to audit 4 addition classes including two philosophy courses: "philosophy of mind" and "power and oppresion", aswell as two math courses: "Real Analysis" and "Real variables 2", which ended up being the classes I most enjoyed.

## Why moral philosophy should be taught throughout Highschools

All humans are inherently selfish in so far as they desire their own happiness. But instead of trying to minimize this selfishness, society embraced it, getting it to do its bidding. This can be clearly seen as resulting in a capitalist system, where the main idea is if something will provide worth (and so happiness) to a group of humans, then the group will pay for it giving money to the businessman, thus the businessman is incentivised to help the group. Notice though that the business man isn't incentivised to help the group because he wants to help, but rather because of the money he can gain from helping. However, when looking at this morally it is clear that this system doesn't optimize for happiness. For example, are we to say that a famous multi millionaire soccer player should get paid that much? Surely if he was paid a million dollars less and that million dollars were donated to an effective charity he would still be financially incentivised to be a soccer player, he would be almost as happy as he was with the extra million dollars, and the extra million dollars would go on to positively affect countless people. Another problem that is encountered is if there is a group that doesn't have any money, then no one is financially incentivised to help them as they won't make any money out of it. A common reply to this is government intervention in these situations, however, what if the people are in a different country, or if they are animals instead of humans. These problems that arise out of capitalism could be reduced in magnitude if there were more people willing to help those in need or donate money to charities, all of which goes against our selfish nature (at least when it would come to large sums of money that would impact the donator). So, how do we convince people to give more or work for these areas? The largest and easiest way to gain this positive impact isn't to debate with people that they should be doing X or Y, but rather to have a moral philosophy class within highschools and ask them a question. Rather than just asking "What do you want to be when you grow up?", you could also ask "What should you do with your life that will cause the most good?". You could ask them if they think factory farming is wrong, and if it is, is it wrong to pay for it? You could ask them if we should donate to charities, and if so how much? This isn't a moral philosophy class where they would teach all the different types of moral viewpoints, but rather a class ment to pose real life questions whose answers have an impact for the rest of their life. The reason this would be more effective than debates, is because most people already agree that giving money to charity is good or that factory farming is wrong, but because most people don’t take the time to earnestly reflect on these ideas and look at them through a practical lens of what they should do about it, no change gets made. With technology moving at the pace that it is, maybe it’s time for schools to put wisdom back in the curriculum. 




## Personal Projects

## Education

